welcome back everyone uh thanks so much
for tuning in to the mori's a
presentation i mean what a rich
conversation doreen like these are ideas
that i have been thinking about but
haven't had the words to vocalize so
that was a really really great
discussion
definitely and i think it is very
powerful to
now move into tiara's presentation
because i think it's a nice way of
connecting with this idea of you know
making new metaphors building new worlds
imagining new places or ways also of
connecting
say certain traditions and stories and
identities and figures and move that
beyond to other conversations as well
and i think yeah definitely this is a
perfect way of following up the
conversation and perhaps actually
looking into
a perfect example of what uh
i was just talking about right so yeah
yeah absolutely um you know so with that
we won't see too much more we'll turn it
over to tiara i
just so i want to just tell you a little
bit about uh her first
tiara ribeau is a hawaii maui
artist and filmmaker based here in the
bay area as well as honolulu and she's
the founder and artistic director of
babe lab gallery as well as a co-founder
of refresh as an artist her work employs
storytelling and visual narrative to
make visible social and ecological
imbalances while imagining more
regenerative futures and she also
explores how both our bodies and the
technology technologies we use are
entangled with the environment she's
interested in re-centering indigenous
technology and stories that include
indigenous narratives and the experience
of kaneka maoli diaspora
with that we will turn it over to you
tre welcome and thanks so much for being
here with us today
yeah it's an honor to be here uh thank
you so much for having me and really
excited to share
um
a few projects about my practice that
really kind of explore the themes of the
conference in terms of worlding
symbiotic systems interspecies
relationships uh
and protocols uh that i'm sure
that are all tied into kind of the
interconnection of things
so as wade mentioned i'm an
interdisciplinary artist with an
emphasis on film
as well as installation and digital art
and it's a really hybrid practice so
i'll be moving between a few different
mediums
that hopefully you all see the
connective tissue between the projects
so i'm going to start with uh
an introduction to babe lab which is a
community space that i've helped run for
seven years i'm one of the co-founders
and we're um really a venue
and gallery and community space uh
for
for artists who
um
create new media and digital art kind of
a whole spectrum of work um
and we try to stay hyper local but we
also bring in um artists from from
different parts of the continent
and we're located in oakland and we're
just we just reopened so look out for us
in the future
in terms of my personal practice
i wanted to start with the project
cyanovisions
which is a body of work that's really
spend two years of research
and explored different kind of
mediums of installation
film and was a highly collaborative
project uh
that and as well as kind of a world
building project that i hope to keep
expanding um
it explores speculative mutualisms with
cyanobacteria in an age of climate
collapse and really aims to reposition
the framing of
ourselves to other species in this case
cyanobacteria
and our interconnectedness to them
cyanobacteria were one of the first or
the first species uh
or organisms to photosynthesize on the
planet which ultimately created the
oxygen we breathe
and uh complex biodiversity
biodiverse systems as we know it today
um now we're kind of seeing this in the
cyclical way
um humans generating uh toxic algal
blooms
uh which is
uh due to kind of like systems of
different industrial and pollut you know
pollution and just kind of uh
management resource management type
stuff um and we also create we you know
we're creating new life uh
um in terms of synthetic biology genetic
engineering and artificial life
so cyanobus visions really posits
potentials for
biological hybridities
that recognize this inextricable
inextricable relationship of humans to
other organisms so i'm going to play a
really short clip
of
part of the film which is uh co-directed
by jody stillwater
i'm gonna do a quick change of my tab so
you can hear the audio
so
[Music]
okay i'm switching tabs back
this was really the only way to share
audio with you guys so thanks for your
patience
um
so
yeah it's a 15 minute film if you have
time uh to check it out
there's a sort of there's animations
that go into it as well
um
and it's been shown
as both a single channel video and film
festivals as well as an installation
where you can kind of look at the
organisms of the cyanobacteria
kind of under the microscope
and really
kind of look at the different forms that
they take as biofilms
i've shown it kind of in
very different kind of setups
including
in the exhibition lux eterna which means
to turn
as a practice including
oh okay
hi everyone i'm back
so perfect timing about to talk about my
next project
uh which is called uh what which
involves both uh a website called the
bioplastic cookbook for ritual healing
from petrochemical landscapes which was
part of a web residency with academy
solitude and zkm
but it extends into a larger practice
that of
creating bioplastics and
really is more of a provocation about
material relationships and our
relationships to
the creation of materials versus
kind of the consumption of petrochemical
plastics and how that
really
you know is a part of systemic issues
related to extractive
industries
and and different systems
so um
the the website itself kind of outlines
protocols for creating different
bioplastics
um
in term and as well as kind of like
philosophical musings around that
and shows different examples of
bioplastics that i've made using the
different materials that are all
plant-based
uh
or
bio-based like gelatin which is uh not
not just plants
um
but it kind of looks into also the
processes and and the care that's
embedded into the materials when you're
making them it's a longer process of
mixing
heating liquids mixing them pouring them
waiting for them to dry over two days so
it really shifts kind of our material
relationships to labor time and
consumption
and and it's more almost like a
meditation or a transformational
um
practice for me more so than i'm not
trying to upscale this or be
manufacturing on any level but
you know
it's it's a practice to provoke
uh these
sorts of materials to kind of move into
the world and be more uh used other
people can manufacture them that'll be
great that's that's you know
goal accomplished and we're seeing it
kind of we're seeing them happen slowly
um i also play with speculative kind of
fiction in my work again so thinking
about
uh
how these can be used for textiles the
fashion industry is hugely wasteful so
what are ways that we can use
biodegradable materials in the in our
garments or
could we grow
textiles on our on our bodies these
types of things
i haven't really made practical garments
out of this yet it's been more
speculative and fun and process-based
but i you know i have some images of
draping them and i've made them as
sculptural objects as well
so it's meant to kind of be more of a
practice that's that's an open source
guide to offering protocols so a lot of
other people can make these
or use these materials create and use
these materials around their world for
you know art making object making etc
and a lot of people dm me and they're
like hey look what i made using your
recipe and that's the best that's like
that's i'm more really about that
sharing of global community versus
you know
having my objects on display which is
nice this this is nice but
for me it's more about um how to build a
global community around these materials
speaking of materials um moving into
a project that ties that into my um
uh into my background as kanakamali or
native hawaiian
um
and
this project
uh looks into plastic on plastic glommer
which was first
defined and discovered by geologist
patricia kokorin and sculptor kelly
azvak in 2012
on camilo beach in kau
in hawaii island
and uh basically the heat from bonfires
um
as well as other heat kind of melted
together
uh plastic debris that has washed ashore
uh with sand and rock and lava to create
this is you know from the south pacific
guyer to create this kind of new
conglomerate
that geologists were really excited
about they're like oh it's a marker for
the anthropocene
we have this new geological marker
without really ever considering
the relationship
to uh
the kanakamali at all um
so
for us it's really the the lava all the
black rock that you see
is really um part of the body of the
living volcanic and elemented elemental
deity
um
who resides in the mouth of kilauea the
active volcano or more specifically
but you can really say that any of the
land
on the lava on hawaii island is an
extension of pele's sacred body and as
kanaka we also look to pele as our
ancestor so really she's an extension of
us and so is the lava and the land
so plastic glommer that i see is more of
the invasion of in the melding of really
like these toxic colonial
and petrochemical substances with uh
palais and our
body um almost like a desecration
so
you know
something to consider before being
really excited about fan prophecy and as
people get to often are
so
um in a two-channel video and
installation work this this this body of
work has spanned two years as well um
i
brought in my bioplastics um and wrapped
them around lava rock to really consider
them as like a hookup or an offering
of an alternative technology so to speak
to plastics
what what could biodegrade what won't
invade
the
the lava and the land
and i positioned uh lava flows from
kilauea next to
uh
lidar imagery and insar you know from
moonstar technology
um that i also have in a virtual gallery
on new york city
um
and was shown in installation as well um
and it's going to be showing another
installation uh in
which i'll maybe tell you guys about
after
next month which i'm really excited
about um in person in africa so
um
anyway so this the lidar imagery is like
active later
shooting at the land um which can also
be seen as a like continual invasion of
the land
um
that's trying to predict deformations at
kilauea's summit but really there's no
way to really predict
her movements so
um
the in the two-channel video it's really
there's chance being used there's only
that honor pellet uh with the lava flow
and then there's just the the lidar data
that that you kind of move through as a
as a landscape uh to juxtapose kind of
these these
two belief systems
and i think it's important as we
consider new ways of being
um
and and as we
can talk about dismantling systems that
need to be dismantled
as a reminder that like
indigenous peoples need to be
included in the conversation when it
comes to environmental delegations or
even these technological
um you know the the the building of
the geological monitoring station at
kilauea
um
or you know the 30 ml do we need a 30
millimeter telescope in addition to the
13 telescopes that already exist on mana
awakea
the answer is no if it's not serving a
mutualistic goal with the people in the
land right
so
um
you know we've been
working for
hundreds of years to millennia on this
in terms of worlding this this when we
inherently understand and see the world
as interconnected
all right last project um
this is a collaborative project with uh
chinchinyi
called kaihai which is a hybrid of ocean
in hawaii and
mandarin
and we've built kind of a series of
virtual and augmented reality
installations
to utilize trans-pacific stories um
from polynesia to east asia to kind of
explore environmental issues indigenous
stories uh and diaspora across the
pacific ocean
so we started with uh this
augmented reality installation called
nikili which really pays home homage to
hina opahala who is the goddess of coral
reefs
and uh
it was
she's
just a filter that you can if you go to
chinchin's
uh
ig
uh she's at 44an
44i a n
uh you can access the filter and really
bring her to life anywhere but she she
likes to be along the coast or in the
ocean
and she was first kind of brought to
life near kaimana beach in honolulu
and uh i worked with
also
juxtaposes humans with coral species and
thinks about our interconnectedness to
each other as well as you know it's
fashionable it's a good look
uh
for our second sculpture we looked at
the submarine cables that cross the
pacific ocean
and
actually one of the first ones landed in
hawaii
um but now we have this outgrowth it's
kind of like this tentacular kind of
monster that's you know growing on the
ocean floor
um so we wanted to visualize that in a
goddess in like a deity a type of deity
that
has been born from these
telecommunications submarine cable
systems
and we're just calling them og
which it takes from the acronym asia
america gateway which is the name of one
of the trans-pacific cables
and currently we're really excited to be
showing them in the epic gallery with
peter wu
and that is currently online and you can
access this gallery through
the gray area festival exhibition as
well in diorama
so uh og lives there uh with a
a dialogue that is spoken
that
uh between hina opahala
mazu who is a chinese sea goddess and uh
this new goddess um
uh and they're discussing kind of like
the
the growth of technology over the past
1000 years and currently in the gray
area exhibition
we have uh
one of the rooms uh where you can see
both of these sculptures
uh next to uh
a video that really is just meant to
highlight the dialogue that's being
spoken between the three of
them so i hope you get a chance to check
that out
and lastly um just wanted to say what's
coming next i'm working on a film in
hawaii i'm going back next month
that really kind of looks at the
uh
well where i grew up which was this is
the road i grew up on and this is like
the jungle i used to play in as a kid
as you see there's like these water
pipes that run through it they're always
kind of like moving water
through
from from the source kind of down into
the city
so it's kind of looking at the elemental
aqua or the you know the forest
um
the elemental gods that reside in these
spaces and how kind of
there there are there are kind of these
invisible borders or these liminal
spaces where they exist that you can
really come in contact with and again
how the land is an extension
you know it's looking into how the land
however we're connected to the land how
it's an extension of our bodies and of
us so
um
these are just kind of shots that i took
last time uh that
with uh jason chu and this is elise and
sean
who are brother and sister who i hope to
be in the film
and again thinking about the borders of
the rainforest that most people don't
often think about and how to represent
them visually
if you can't if you can't see them how
do you how do you feel them
so yeah that's that's my talk thank you
so much
that's info get in touch
wonderful
[Music]
that was so great tiara thank you so
much um
wow so many different projects to like
think about you know um
and
you know some new ones you know i'm very
familiar with your work and i've you
know i've watched cyanovision's evolve
over the years um and so it's exciting
to see you know the new directions that
you're taking and you know the different
ways that this that project has evolved
and also you know how your practice has
developed into different you know media
terrains uh i you know it was really
exciting to install your work with gen
10 and in the diorama show
and so just so everybody knows i posted
the links to all of those shows in the
chat on the live stream so definitely
check those out you can also go to again
you can go to attention's instagram and
you can try the filters yourself you can
also check out the epoch show and the
new york city show which are all online
um
wow i don't even know where to begin um
i think you know first and foremost you
know in thinking about
worlding protocol what really strikes me
about your work is your ability to you
know as drain and i were talking about
before like bring tradition into new
media space bring the old and the new
and really
really uphold
the the integrity and the spirit of all
of the stories that you're telling um uh
from your community and of the
communities of your collaborators
um
and i was wondering if you talk a little
bit about you know as we were discussing
with the mori a little bit earlier today
how you bring that care to bring those
stories bring those sacred objects and
artifacts you know and all of those
traditions into the metaverse
i think the care is really inherent like
it's not something that i have to
consider really i just
put it into everything i do whether it's
a film project
or
an object that i'm making
i think it's inherent and i think that
that's just an important principle
to always remember when creating work
because if it's going to be shown
publicly
you'll
whoever is receiving it will also
receive the energy that you put into it
so if it's with care they'll feel bad if
it's not
you know
then they won't if it's you know
um
yeah
yeah and i also kept on thinking about
how
you also
tie or put together fuse more than put
just together
several areas that i find very
interesting for this conversation how
can we envision these uh
new worlds or i don't know if new but at
least definitely different from what
we're currently living at and i and i
just couldn't help but think a lot about
how do we integrate these non-human
intelligences into the whole
conversation right because that's also
something that is very
very very important and
and as you were talking and showing us
your projects which i also think are
amazing um
i kept on thinking about how for
instance in a lot of um
indigenous communities in mexico pretty
much for most of them there is no
concept of art nor culture like there is
not a word for it there is no concept
for that
but what we do have in a lot of these
especially within these indigenous
communities and their own languages
right so what we do have is a very very
strong connection how can we talk about
beauty and sensibility and aesthetics
through nature so this connection
between of course tradition but then
also bringing in the technology but also
bringing in these non-uh non-human
intelligences um
well pretty much you know everything
that's not human and not necessarily
talking about you know technology so um
i think it tastes very nicely with that
uh with that notion because i think that
in a way it's just you know i think
about a triangle here like we're talking
about how can we
weave together all of these
conversations for us to be able to
envision these new possibilities of uh
upper cells of the places that we
inhabit and how can we move into these
other layers of reality and i think this
is a strong connection that you have
with with biology and with non-human
intelligence this is something that for
me i think it's very compelling uh in
order to connect with all of these areas
so i was just wondering if you could
talk a little bit more about
how are you building these connections
with these non-human entities and what
role do they play within all of your
creative process which i think that must
be something that ties very strongly to
certain parts of it
yeah it's funny because i feel like
before i started making work that really
tied back to
hawaii i was i was always kind of
thinking
with this
this world view that came from growing
up as kanaka in
in hawaii which is thinking of
you know everything is alive uh
having
you know knowing that the elements uh
are also
related to a pantheon of of deities or
gods um
and and growing up with those stories
right i grew up in this very la like
this the space where everything was
alive and that picture i showed you
where i was running through the jungle
um
it just
kind of informed my world view so i
think when i started to make work um i
couldn't help but consider
uh the elements as as being living and
and playing a role
in things
i i don't know what drew me to
cyanobacteria honestly except for the
fact that i did work in kona on the big
island as on a on an algae farm to to
grow algae to biodiesel that's kind of
my
um
biology background i didn't i went to
school a little bit for it but i was i
was a lab tech
about 10 years 10 years ago at this
point uh more than like just giving away
my age um
and
it was just fascinating to see that you
can grow life so quickly
you know not cyanobacteria specifically
but we're working with a similar kind of
like microalgae species that would grow
very very quickly over a week to giant
like run right from like little flasks
to these raceway prawns
that would then make all this like
this biomass that could be converted
into fuel
um so that was just really fascinating
to me and i think that in addition to
the hawaiian world view kind of informs
my work a lot you know and and i think
a lot of us pull in our life experiences
into our work and that's really kind of
like things that i'm pulling from and
thinking about
also i guess you can see a lot of
oceanic themes in my work or this
relationship to uh
yeah the ocean and and that's very much
i think from growing up near the ocean
wow um
you know what's the thing that i mean
the ocean is such a great metaphor
because in a lot of ways the ocean you
know connects all things um you know on
this
we're all made of water
all shores exactly and and and and on
top of that you know it's where all life
emerged from you know from the briny
murk uh you know thousands and thousands
of years ago
and so there's a lot to be said about
you know finding our origin point as
beings on this earth human non-human
living not living
and you know something that
you know the whole this whole idea of
worlding protocol that we're approaching
at this at this festival is
really about how we can ima how we can
really grasp all that interconnectedness
and
really you know the your work with you
know with algae with cyanobacteria with
these microscopic organisms that are
mostly invisible you know uh or or just
not thought of by the average person you
know unless you have some kind of you
know infection or
something like that
um only when you know these things are
directly impacting you in a negative way
um
and
i think that's really that's really
wonderful um and i'd love to you know
hear about
how
you know we as
artists creators thinkers and just
people on this earth can
think
in a more how we can think through that
interconnectedness you know we were
talking about this with the more within
more earlier
about how we can think through the
metaverse through ideas of connection
and love versus ones of extraction um
so i don't know how do you have any
advice for how you know you know in your
work how you approach these ideas of
thinking through all of this
interconnectedness
thinking through through
interconnectedness yeah
again i think it's like an inherent
belief system
not to keep bringing like bringing that
back
but
but it's it's hard to not think of
everything as interconnected and i
um
so
i think because of that because i do
think
like i've always thought that way i
think that's why you see it
being brought up so much in my work
um
and then i think it's important to
juxtapose
kind of
the the other world or the separation of
worlds right so i think that a lot of us
who
create digital art and we're in this you
know
we're often online or we're you know
we're on our phones on our laptops it's
all made of like earth materials you
know
i did some research on rare earth
elements before
um
so like little particles of metal that
come together to these assemblages
through
[Music]
these transformations
of material
um
but but oftentimes we we miss like most
people miss that part
so i think in my work i try to juxtapose
those worlds so even in the in the
excerpt i showed you of cyanovisions you
kind of see
you know there's a separation between
the cyanobacteria and the humans through
tubes um there's kind of like the
more like what's hinted at like a more
symbiotic way of
like later on in the film you just see
people outside hanging out with santa
barbara more or less um
sorry the lighting and uh
um
so it's a so i aim to juxtapose that
with like this other character who's
having like it fed into their body via
the tubes
uh sudanese who is a
very talented
drag performer uh
was in that um so that character
sort of showed this other way of of kind
of like the dependency like the
you know i just
i just watched the new dune and i was
like oh i really like that scene is very
like giving harkonnen you know i was
very like
to drop a pop culture reference but like
yeah i was really giving these harkonnen
vibes and that you know in doing they're
kind of showing like living with nature
like
versus
control
you know i think it's it's very much
about control extraction
versus you know symbiosis mutualism
so
right now i mean we're in a very
extractive world um with or
we're living in
the systems that dominate um
are very extractive so i think we have
to constantly reconsider
those systems and how to dismantle them
and the work just aims to do that all
the time
and also to remember that everything is
just a matter of scale really like there
there is no such thing as a
like as an individual
that has no connection to anything else
like i i remember this meme that i saw
last week that a friend of mine shared
that was this um
you mentioned it was an illustration of
a human body and
it just does like these close-ups from
the hand and from the mouth
from several places and shows
the tiny ecosystems that live there and
just adds on these uh quotes like we
were never individuals right so so i
guess it's definitely a matter of scale
and in a way
once we understand ourselves as part of
a bigger ecosystem that doesn't only
encompasses our
own i don't know like human
subjectivities i guess it's a very
powerful way of also trying to not only
understand how we connect with one
another within the human the human realm
but also with what is around us so
and i guess that sometimes we just
forget to talk about like this i don't
know like i guess the energetic balance
that we are constantly trying to push
into one side more than the other right
like this extractivist activity of you
know
playing this role of being more than or
you know being faster stronger bigger
whatever and
i'm forgetting about what how does that
look like or how does that feel like
for the other
living beings around us and what does
that mean
for them you know like
we just cannot i don't know like even if
it's a matter of see things uh that are
in a very very different scale than us i
think that trying to envision that
somehow i think it's it's something that
is very powerful
and that i definitely see
in your work i know yeah
no durian just to attack on to what
you're saying you know what you're
reminding me of is you know from from
the world of anthropology was you know
the the work of eduardo de vivieros
castro um you know who who wrote about
the you know not to use a really
academic term but the the ontological
term or a shift in you know
the study of anthropology where people
started you know where
it's really rooted in its objective
position right like we're in our bodies
we're experiencing the world through our
own subjective materiality you know how
can we understand our alternative or our
difference to something else um and
uh you know i've always
taken that you know so in my own kind of
interpretation you know american
anthropological so association don't
come for me um but my little like
you know feeling is that like
by and this is something that i think
new media does really well and what you
do fabulously well in your work tra is
by
you know really trying to create media
based experiences
that bridge different kinds of
materialities the biological the
technological the living the non-living
um you know the manufactured and the
natural
um the artificial and artificial and the
real um
and
also you know um
again in like you know to talk about
what you know to go back to what doreen
was saying about feeling about what it
feels like the a phenomenological
approach so to speak what it what is the
experience actually doing for us and
your work really
does that in such a profound way um and
i've always really really appreciated
that about it
um yeah thank you so much
so um yeah i wonder about the legibility
and the tren you know the
translatability sometimes and and if
it's giving that
um so
i mean it's also kind of you know we
were talking about tech earlier in big
tech and how you know a ceo at a major
company can never understand the
experience of
you know as the more he was saying a
single woman who lives in a village and
kind of the trees that she touches and
the smells that she smells and um you
know
this approach of trying to though it's
impossible and we can never totally get
there you know to try at least to
approach those different subjective
positions um for some kind of deeper
understanding um you know that i think
yeah that seems like a practical kit for
a way forward
yeah and i'm realizing the more that i
work in kind of like film and video the
more
how immersive that that actually is as a
medium and how it kind of gets into
people's unconscious and i hope that
these more immersive installations do
that when people enter these these
virtual galleries
that it's somehow
you know if it's
a ceo or like some someone who's working
in tech comes in and they're like it
kind of seeps into their unconscious i
think of to bring another
uh villanuev movie into the picture um
not that i'm a
i i i prefer dune over this uh the new
blade runner right the 2049 there's the
dream make there's a there's the
character who creates dreams kind of
manufactures dreams and i think that's
really what the work is doing
essentially is it's a manufacture it's
well not manufacturing but it's creating
these these worlds that are reflections
of reality
or
kind of
you know pulling these different notions
of reality or or speculations about
reality uh a parallel reality in now or
in the near future
or or pulling from very
um
you know long-standing stories that are
still being told
um
you know for for the kanaka it was all
oral histories so you didn't have visual
references you just had lived
experiences and then you had the oral
histories through
um olalo and oli and malay
and hula so those were
you know transferred
transferences of knowledges through
uh
through through different generations
um
so i really think of my responsibility
or my kuleana as like uh
to continue the trajectories of those
stories and to kind of like imagine new
trajectories into the future of how
music stories can continue to stay alive
because
not only in hawaii but for many
indigenous cultures
a lot of these stories have have been
lost suppressed buried
so how do we bring them back and and
what are you know i think i think of
working within
the digital art realm is kind of a
subversive way of doing that since it's
it's those boundaries that aren't often
crossed
absolutely
um and you know speaking of those those
stories and um i was wondering you know
you presented uh about about uh about
the work in diorama and the epoch
gallery show um and i was wondering if
you could tell us a little bit more
about the mythology surrounding um
surrounding the work surrounding the
series um your collaboration with cube
because i know that you both brought a
lot of your um a lot of your history a
lot of your you know community
ideas and stories into this um and i'd
love to give people a little bit more of
an insight into it because i think it's
really really fascinating
yeah absolutely um
so it's it's a collaborative work and it
started with us just really missing home
and and talking about
our our relative homes on the coast um
q is from wenzhou which is a coastal
city and i'm from honolulu
so we're like what are the ways that we
reconnect to home
or envision re-envision home and and
often it's through these stories or
these
we're thinking of like how can we create
kind of symbols to
or or these trans-pacific portals
represented by these
different kind of symbolic uh
sculptural
gods or um
that can embody these stories
and and
you know help others in the diaspora
kind of feel reconnected to home that's
why we wanted to go with augmented
reality initially as a medium because
then anyone anywhere can pull up the
sculpture
and have it connect them to the coast or
the ocean
so it was like a bridging of coasts and
a bridging of
right the ocean connects everything
so using the ocean is as as the main
kind of medium
that transmits
transmits these stories and also
thinking about um
wayfinding and how um specifically
that is not an updated
video it's okay though um
i thought i updated the video in the
gallery um
so thinking about like
uh
the wayfinding and how uh
polynesians came from southeast asia um
on double-held canoes we talk about it
in this in this kind of like dialogue
um that was traversing the ocean right
um
and and also
uh
so
yeah so the conversation kind of um if
anyone has a chance to really like get
into the gallery and listen to the
conversation it's about 10 minutes then
you'll get more of a background on on
the on the stories that we share i like
to say the stories and and live you know
because it's not really mythology it's
it's like kind of like a living
uh
story that that is very real um
you know og is a little bit of more miso
speculation into like did i cut out
no i just stopped my screen share
oh okay okay um it's a little bit more
of like a mythos uh
around what this like
trans-pacific
submarine cable deity could could be and
what they would say and what they would
like what their you know what are they
feeling what is their what's their vibe
what would they look like so
so i think we're both like drawing from
the past and the future
uh and stories around that
stories and mythologies yeah that's
amazing um you know again you guys can
go to uh chen chen's instagram it's 4 4
i a n on instagram to try out the
filters in augmented reality uh you can
also head to newart.city to see the work
installed like i just showed in on new
art city um or you can go to
epoch.gallery to see the replicant show
where the sister installation is also uh
is also on view and i will note that uh
at epoch gallery uh
ogg is posed against the hong kong
skyline it's a futuristic blade runner
version of hong kong um and in our show
in the diorama show uh nikili is po is
uh is uh uh what is posed in front of
oahu it's a 3d scan of the island of
oahu so both sculptures are in their
native habitats
at the point where the submarine cables
that connect those two places and share
the internet across the ocean uh where
they where they are um and so that's
just a i think that's a really
meaningful metaphor and really speaks on
a very literal level to all of the
things that we're talking about
at the festival
um
yeah
we are
we're running out of time um and so i
think we have to bring in our next guest
but chiari um is there anything else
that you wanted to add um about this
work before we before we rap or doreen
um yeah let me pull up uh the next
oh oh tomorrow i'm speaking at the
rederell ecologies
2 conference
um
that's i don't there might not it starts
really early because it's on est it's
it's like out of uh
out of buffalo new york um but if anyone
wants to wake up really early there'll
be a bunch of talks including me
in the morning
i speak at 10 45 a.m and i know that's
like probably overlapping with some gray
area
festivities but um that is happening
tomorrow and just a really cool
conference it'll probably be recorded
and it's looking at similar themes of
symbiosis and the ruderal
like you know the kind of like the
essence of the earth um so to speak
and
uh
then there's another there's the
overkill festival
um that's happening in uh it's an art
and gaming festival in the netherlands
um
that uh is curated by
uh i have a trouble saying his name uh
amazing brilliant curator um
kinsani uh makati um
who put together the misawa exhibition
um that is going to be the first phys
like physical iteration of uh this
exhibit
uh which um will be
which has been online
um so if people want to check out like
the
the um
the digital version it's at misawa
m-i-s-a-v-a
oh no it's gone where is it
um
it probably still exists um maybe i'll
send you a link wait but the overkill
festival that's coming up too thank you
don't worry uh i just dropped a link to
the rudolph uh rudaro uh ecologies
conference and uh my colleague has
dropped a link to the overkill festival
so you can hit on live.era.org you can
go to the chat and find those links and
we'll share those with everybody after
the fact as well
chiari thank you thank you so much thank
you so much
such an honor to be a part of this thank
you yeah of course